# Run ADMIXTURE from R

This function runs ADMIXTURE, taking either a `gen_tibble` or a file as
an input. This is a wrapper that runs ADMIXTURE from the command line,
and reads the output into R. It can run multiple values of `k` and
multiple repeats for each `k`.

## Usage

``` r
gt_admixture(
  x,
  k,
  n_runs = 1,
  crossval = FALSE,
  n_cores = 1,
  seed = NULL,
  conda_env = "auto",
  outdir = NULL
)
```

## Arguments

- x:

  a `gen_tibble` or a character giving the path of the input PLINK bed
  file

- k:

  an integer giving the number of clusters

- n_runs:

  the number of runs for each k value (defaults to 1)

- crossval:

  boolean, should cross validation be used to assess the fit (defaults
  to FALSE)

- n_cores:

  number of cores (defaults to 1)

- seed:

  the seed for the random number generator (defaults to NULL)

- conda_env:

  the name of the conda environment to use. "none" forces the use of a
  local copy, whilst any other string will direct the function to use a
  custom conda environment.

- outdir:

  optional path to write intermediate admixture output files. If not
  specified, defaults to a temporary file. Use this argument to store
  intermediate files.

## Value

an object of class `gt_admix` consisting of a list with the following
elements:

- `k` the number of clusters

- `Q` a matrix with the admixture proportions

- `P` a matrix with the allele frequencies

- `log` a log of the output generated by ADMIXTURE (usually printed on
  the screen when running from the command line)

- `cv` the cross validation error (if `crossval` is TRUE)

- `loglik` the log likelihood of the model

- `id` the id column of the input `gen_tibble` (if applicable)

- `group` the group column of the input `gen_tibble` (if applicable)

## Details

This is a wrapper for the command line program ADMIXTURE. It can either
use a binary present in the main environment, or use a copy installed in
a conda environment.

## References

Alexander, D.H., Novembre, J. and Lange, K. (2009) ‘Fast model-based
estimation of ancestry in unrelated individuals’, Genome Research,
19(9), pp. 1655–1664. Available at:
https://doi.org/10.1101/gr.094052.109.

## Examples

``` r
# run the example only if we have the package installed
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{
bed_file <-
  system.file("extdata", "lobster", "lobster.bed", package = "tidypopgen")
lobsters <- gen_tibble(bed_file,
  backingfile = tempfile("lobsters"),
  quiet = TRUE
)
lobsters <- lobsters %>% group_by(population)
gt_admixture(lobsters,
  k = 2:3, seed = c(1, 2),
  n_runs = 2, crossval = TRUE
)
} # }
```
